README.md, before:

# Simply Eats - Online Food Ordering App
## Project overview
Welcome to Simply Eats, the go-to app for hassle-free and convenient food ordering! Developed on MIT App Inventor, This app is designed to simplify the way you order delicious meals without the need for complicated location tracking. Our app is centered around the MIT CloudDB, ensuring seamless data management and enhanced user experience. Simply Eats allows users to explore local restaurants, view menus, select items with associated prices.
## Hyperlinked list of any resources used
MIT: https://appinventor.mit.edu/

Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/

Flaticon: https://www.flaticon.com/

Open AI: https://chat.openai.com/

## Key Features
### User-Friendly Interface: 
* Simply Eats boasts an intuitive and easy-to-navigate interface making it simple for users to browse.
### Restaurant Search and Menu Selection 
* Users can explore a list of restaurants available in the app.
* Intuitive user interface for selecting desired food items from the menu.
* Clear display of prices alongside each food item for transparent ordering.
### CloudDB Integration
* The app utilizes CloudDB in MIT App Inventor for storing and retrieving data.
* Data synchronization ensures a seamless experience across multiple devices for users.
##  Components used in my application
* User Interface: Button, Notifier, Label, Images
* Storage: CloudDB
* Layout: HorizontalArrangement, VerticalArrangement
* Icons: Flaticon
### CloudDB
MIT App Inventor's CloudDB is a cloud-based database service that allows mobile app developers to store and retrieve data in real-time. It serves as a convenient solution for managing app data without the need for complex server setups.

### Testing and Debugging
I've conducted comprehensive testing of all the features in this app on an actual mobile device through the MIT AI2 Companion app. Any bugs or issues that arose during testing have been successfully addressed and resolved.
## Summary details of code review
The app code review was conducted by Baljit Singh. He said the app is well-structured and the use of MIT Inventor CloudDB for data storage is appropriate for a simple application like this.

Code is generally readable, and variable and function names are descriptive with logical flow of the application which is easy to follow, enhancing maintainability.

## Screens
### App starting Screen
This screen contains two buttons from which user can decide to move further with login or signup with all validations and verification of credentials.

![screen1](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/7cb6b8b4-e546-4428-b799-29690cba9ca7)

### Login Page
If user choose to go with login ,then theis screen comes further where all validations required to succeed to go for the main page of restaurants.

![login screen](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/6aa70bea-b9dc-48c9-a768-07aee7e455da)

### Signup page
On this page user will get the option to create a new account with simply eats where all credentials required to put as inputs, then it redirects the user to the main page.

![signup screen](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/4a6a5779-8388-49f5-961e-400e1daa8cdf)

### Main page
This screen contains some restaurant options with their cuisine and ratings d information to choose from.

![main page](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/47384aa8-7f28-4783-ab55-506fb9c31c42)

### Menu
This is the menu page where user will get some options of food dishes to order from. Also the price of every dish is mentioned in it. Whenever user clicks on the add to order button it will shows in the cart label.

![menu page](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/7b989c06-c927-4b43-96ff-6371e78e57d1)

## All Block Images
### First screen 

<img width="414" alt="blocks" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/3a3d47f1-80b8-4fd3-81ce-0ffeea154d05">

<img width="405" alt="blocks (1)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/8371ba8c-d13b-4821-818a-fadb20766111">

### Signup 

<img width="383" alt="blocks (2)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/506a6bb9-846a-4513-9962-e0ed4de1f283">

<img width="729" alt="blocks (3)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/1f434582-b0e2-4600-bb30-2091e5028011">

<img width="630" alt="blocks (4)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/b0f5e289-6cbb-41b1-97de-9253869d4470">

### Login 

<img width="615" alt="blocks (16)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/c132d3f1-4f4f-40a7-b94e-1dd800d2da3c">

<img width="383" alt="blocks (5)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/4c20af00-8bc7-4a24-a49d-ad026e110d1b">

<img width="479" alt="blocks (17)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/a162bb05-1048-466e-8d0c-fa6e5335c599">

### Main page

<img width="383" alt="blocks (8)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/820df6e9-c808-4cbb-ac8c-adde810c8faa">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (9)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/177a9f5f-a35a-4f31-8a30-b60e39849c49">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (10)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/08fa4666-79b5-4e25-bca6-781828c6b868">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (11)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/92c3884f-59cd-4985-a3fa-5ed89a925a89">

### Menu page 

<img width="400" alt="blocks (12)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/68efa3b5-c6d9-49d8-9848-635d11e7f4f2">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (13)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/b7df0fb7-ca52-4a06-a133-6e8397a27526">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (14)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/443d8624-f399-4957-990c-945d5b41dc28">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (15)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/9a9d3fd8-ed35-4641-921f-04080c335393">

## Summary
Simply Eats is a user-friendly online food ordering app developed with MIT App Inventor. Users can easily discover local restaurants, navigate menus, and select items with transparent pricing. The app's intuitive interface and CloudDB integration offer a seamless experience, allowing data synchronization across devices. Ensure proper device permissions for optimal functionality.

## Acknowledgement
 
Built with: https://appinventor.mit.edu/

Code Blocks and layout: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjRDYMg8v2A

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEpDG2Od7nc&t=1109s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nW_nfbSPDj8&t=712s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cmy0VueB1zc&t=141s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrGjSomKBoY&t=114s

Open AI: https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/chatgpt

Icons:  https://www.flaticon.com/

Commit message:

Update summary of development process

README.md, after:

# Simply Eats - Online Food Ordering App
## Project overview
Welcome to Simply Eats, the go-to app for hassle-free and convenient food ordering! Developed on MIT App Inventor, This app is designed to simplify the way you order delicious meals without the need for complicated location tracking. Our app is centered around the MIT CloudDB, ensuring seamless data management and enhanced user experience. Simply Eats allows users to explore local restaurants, view menus, select items with associated prices.
## Hyperlinked list of any resources used
MIT: https://appinventor.mit.edu/

Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/

Flaticon: https://www.flaticon.com/

Open AI: https://chat.openai.com/

## Key Features
### User-Friendly Interface: 
* Simply Eats boasts an intuitive and easy-to-navigate interface making it simple for users to browse.
### Restaurant Search and Menu Selection 
* Users can explore a list of restaurants available in the app.
* Intuitive user interface for selecting desired food items from the menu.
* Clear display of prices alongside each food item for transparent ordering.
### CloudDB Integration
* The app utilizes CloudDB in MIT App Inventor for storing and retrieving data.
* Data synchronization ensures a seamless experience across multiple devices for users.
##  Components used in my application
* User Interface: Button, Notifier, Label, Images
* Storage: CloudDB
* Layout: HorizontalArrangement, VerticalArrangement
* Icons: Flaticon
### CloudDB
MIT App Inventor's CloudDB is a cloud-based database service that allows mobile app developers to store and retrieve data in real-time. It serves as a convenient solution for managing app data without the need for complex server setups.

## Summary details of Development Process
Planning: Initially, i just started using MIT app inventor to learn the basics of this platform. Then, I built a image classification app to follow a tutorial of MIT app inventor and push in github. After that, I saw some youtube tutorials and get an idea for my project.

Designing: Designed wireframes and layout for a user-friendly visual appearance and navigation.

Development: lets you log in or sign up on the main screen. Using MIT App Inventor CloudDB. After login, explore restaurants, click for menus, and add dishes to your cart. Test code and welcome feedback for continuous improvements in the app's look and functionality.

Testing: I've conducted comprehensive testing of all the features in this app on an actual mobile device through the MIT AI2 Companion app. Any bugs or issues that arose during testing have been successfully addressed and resolved.

## Summary details of code review
The app code review was conducted by Baljit Singh. He said the app is well-structured and the use of MIT Inventor CloudDB for data storage is appropriate for a simple application like this. Code is generally readable, and variable and function names are descriptive with logical flow of the application which is easy to follow, enhancing maintainability.

## Screens
### App starting Screen
This screen contains two buttons from which user can decide to move further with login or signup with all validations and verification of credentials.

![screen1](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/7cb6b8b4-e546-4428-b799-29690cba9ca7)

### Login Page
If user choose to go with login ,then theis screen comes further where all validations required to succeed to go for the main page of restaurants.

![login screen](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/6aa70bea-b9dc-48c9-a768-07aee7e455da)

### Signup page
On this page user will get the option to create a new account with simply eats where all credentials required to put as inputs, then it redirects the user to the main page.

![signup screen](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/4a6a5779-8388-49f5-961e-400e1daa8cdf)

### Main page
This screen contains some restaurant options with their cuisine and ratings d information to choose from.

![main page](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/47384aa8-7f28-4783-ab55-506fb9c31c42)

### Menu
This is the menu page where user will get some options of food dishes to order from. Also the price of every dish is mentioned in it. Whenever user clicks on the add to order button it will shows in the cart label.

![menu page](https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/7b989c06-c927-4b43-96ff-6371e78e57d1)

## All Block Images
### First screen 

<img width="414" alt="blocks" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/3a3d47f1-80b8-4fd3-81ce-0ffeea154d05">

<img width="405" alt="blocks (1)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/8371ba8c-d13b-4821-818a-fadb20766111">

### Signup 

<img width="383" alt="blocks (2)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/506a6bb9-846a-4513-9962-e0ed4de1f283">

<img width="729" alt="blocks (3)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/1f434582-b0e2-4600-bb30-2091e5028011">

<img width="630" alt="blocks (4)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/b0f5e289-6cbb-41b1-97de-9253869d4470">

### Login 

<img width="615" alt="blocks (16)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/c132d3f1-4f4f-40a7-b94e-1dd800d2da3c">

<img width="383" alt="blocks (5)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/4c20af00-8bc7-4a24-a49d-ad026e110d1b">

<img width="479" alt="blocks (17)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/a162bb05-1048-466e-8d0c-fa6e5335c599">

### Main page

<img width="383" alt="blocks (8)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/820df6e9-c808-4cbb-ac8c-adde810c8faa">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (9)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/177a9f5f-a35a-4f31-8a30-b60e39849c49">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (10)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/08fa4666-79b5-4e25-bca6-781828c6b868">

<img width="365" alt="blocks (11)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/92c3884f-59cd-4985-a3fa-5ed89a925a89">

### Menu page 

<img width="400" alt="blocks (12)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/68efa3b5-c6d9-49d8-9848-635d11e7f4f2">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (13)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/b7df0fb7-ca52-4a06-a133-6e8397a27526">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (14)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/443d8624-f399-4957-990c-945d5b41dc28">

<img width="502" alt="blocks (15)" src="https://github.com/nic-dgl104-winter-2024/BasranS-AI-project/assets/144393592/9a9d3fd8-ed35-4641-921f-04080c335393">

## Summary
Simply Eats is a user-friendly online food ordering app developed with MIT App Inventor. Users can easily discover local restaurants, navigate menus, and select items with transparent pricing. The app's intuitive interface and CloudDB integration offer a seamless experience, allowing data synchronization across devices. Ensure proper device permissions for optimal functionality.

## Acknowledgement
 
Built with: https://appinventor.mit.edu/

Code Blocks and layout: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjRDYMg8v2A

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEpDG2Od7nc&t=1109s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nW_nfbSPDj8&t=712s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cmy0VueB1zc&t=141s

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrGjSomKBoY&t=114s

Open AI: https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/chatgpt

Icons:  https://www.flaticon.com/
